>> Steve Kinney: Let's try to
say we have this comment count,
now there's a bunch of stuff we could do,
we could like theoretically keep
an array of comments and my query that or
sub collection every time,
count all the documents and see, but that
still like, if I'm gonna get all of them.
All right, what if it's really like
contentious thread and so now I've got
a query for like a thousand comments
every time it would be a lot better,
like that's 1000 comments every time
we just want to get this number.
It would be a lot better just like as
comments happen increment and decrement
that count, right, this function is going
to have some flaws, cuz it's going to now
respond to new comments and it's gonna
increment and decrement that count right?
Which means that anything that currently
has comments it's gonna be off, so
what could you do?
Well you could have the Cloud
function that goes ahead and
like re-tabulates them all and you could
also have a script that on deploys or
whatever runs a node script with
the fire base admin tool right like.
You can also re-tabulate some of
the stuff, one of the nice things about
NoSQL database is kind of like you get to
play a little bit more with the eventual
consistency, is the number of
comments being super accurate?
Especially at a large number, really
important like you start round it to 1.4k,
and all of a sudden you can get away
with being a little off, right?
[LAUGH] And that's like one of things
that makes NoSQL scale sometimes
is we go ahead and do stuff like that.
So well, I think this one is really kind
of interesting is, because it involve
every time a new document goes into
the comments collection for a post,
we'll then have to go, last time we based
through that, hey for this document,
we wanna change it, this time we have
say every time we put a new document in,
we're gonna have to go, to this other
place and change that document, so
it's a little bit of
a twist on our last trick.
So we’ll go ahead and we’ll say
exports.incrementCommentCount seems
good functions.firestore.document,
in this case, we’re going to listen for
>> Steve Kinney: ('posts/,
not a given particular one,
/comments/'),
so any change to a commentId, we really
only care about onCreate this time,
we don't wanna increment the calendar,
they update one.
One would argue we don't have the ability
to delete comments right now,
one would argue we should probably also
have a decrement one on deletes but
since today we now have the ability to
like once you comment now it's sets
in stone until I go into the admin
dashboard and take it away.
So we're not gonna worry about that
just yet, we'll say async and for
create we'll get a snapshot
there's no before and
the after because there's no before,
[LAUGH] all right?
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, so
we'll have the snapshot,
>> Steve Kinney: And if I wanna get,
I can get any of these, there's also
a second argument called the context.
>> Steve Kinney: I have two
ways to get that postId,
>> Steve Kinney: I could navigate up the
references of the parents, remember how
to use child in the storage one before?
I can parent my way up as well, or
with context, just like in React Router,
there is a params object
which will be each of those
dynamics segments in there,
so we'll say post ID,
>> Steve Kinney: Context.params and
we'll say the postRef = firestore.doc.
>> Steve Kinney: PostId, and
we'll get its comments count,
we need to know what its current count is,
so we need to go ask it,
so we'll say const comments = await,
did I make an async function?
Yeah, I did, cool, we'll say await
postRef data will get everything,
but if I only need one property,
I can use get('comments'),
and we'll return, cuz it's got,
we always have to return a promise.
I know that I'm not like
returning this value, but
this will let the function
know when it's over,
was it postRef.update({comments
: comments + 1 }),
so whenever a new comment document is
added to the sub-collection of a post,
go find the default zero
in there get whatever's
count is return a operation
to increment it by 1.
>> Steve Kinney: And away we go,
some other ones I'll kind of leave as
an exercise for the reader, like we can
listen to OAuth changes, all right?
So OAuth has a on create, or when would
that happen, that would happen on these
sign in with the email and password
right with sign an email password or
when we create the Google OAuth1
that will go ahead and
trigger an OAuth that on create event,
what could we do there?
We could create that user doc, right, so
we don't have to do a client-side anymore,
we don't have to trust that that
code runs and stuff like that.
We can start taking off some of the stuff
that we did on the front end because
we didn't know cloud functions yet,
and we can start taking them back.
Now there could be delay, and
we need to code defensively for
that document not being there yet,
and stuff like that.
That is part of just, yeah,
we have this real time,
push-based database that automatically
updates and sends stuff, but
it means that it’s not like activerecord
or something where the database
completes this entire operation, we have
all the data before we make an HTML page
like we do need to code a little bit
differently and a lot more defensively we
saw some of that today, but it does
allow us to do really cool things and
push like we can write a lot of back end
heavy stuff in Firebase and something that
like abstracts away a lot of the back end
in a way that I think is really cool.
And I love this has come
a long way the first time
we did this course club functions were
released the night before we did it,
[LAUGH] so and
that was I think 18 months ago so
like a lot of this is still like 18
months is a long time in tech but like.
Still, a lot of this is very new, and
getting increasingly more powerful too, so
I would also encourage you to watch this
space as well, and this definitely seems,
amongst a lot of the cloud providers, to
be something of an arms race, all right.
So let's go ahead, I'm gonna make
a brand new one, that I know has zero.
>> Steve Kinney: Now, this one might
not be warmed up yet, we'll find out.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, that comment It is
one of those things where if it doesn't
work I will have to check the logs and
see where the boo boo was made,
[LAUGH] kind of work,s [LAUGH]
the debugging cloud functions, it's great,
it really makes you feel good about life,
but let's take a look.
>> Steve Kinney: The one
thing I'm gonna do is,
this is kind of one of the reasons I gave
myself the firebase on the window object,
is so I could kind of, it's just
gonna add 1 to an object, we can,
[LAUGH] we can keep commenting, it's
just gonna keep adding 1 to an object,
it's probably the way that I'm
fetching it, let's take a look.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we can say firebase.firestore,
>> Steve Kinney: I'll grab that up there.
>> Steve Kinney: Now it's a string,
that's great.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: The function
is somehow setting a string object,
we are setting an object.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep,
the big question is where is it doing
it,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's
take a look at the code, I know what's
happening comments is this is actually
the snapshot literally
the code I was typing.
>> Steve Kinney: We actually want this and
we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, let's try that out.
>> Steve Kinney: I was, calling it on
the reference which is trying to get
a document called comments which
was an object and I was adding it,
plus one to the actual reference which was
setting it to an object, fun times, and
I'll supply that might create myself
a fresh one because I've ruined this.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, nobody
comment on it until my function deploys.
>> Steve Kinney: But you all are here,
so it keeps me honest, all right,
now,
>> Steve Kinney: I'm not convinced
that wasn't the old function, [LAUGH] this
is what you all tune in for, all right?
>> Steve Kinney: There's some it
feels like a cold start to me.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, [SOUND] and
that was warmed up and working,
all right, so yeah,
here's the thing about the cloud,
this stuff isn't instant,
[LAUGH] we're deploying
stuff just everywhere around the world,
takes a while.
See also the course we did on,
doing CDMs on Cloudfront,
involved a lot of patience and
in this we're propagating a lot